# ACM policies for common cluster settings

## Update Kubeconfig CA

The policy **update-kubeconfig-ca** is created to solve the following configuration problem in the managed clusters

### Kubeconfig

When a managed cluster is deployed from ACM, a kubeconfig file is generated automatically.  This kubeconfig allows a user to authenticate as an admin in the managed cluster, and is also used by ACM itself to perform privileged tasks in the managed clusters, like adding new nodes to the cluster. 

The kubeconfig is stored in a secret in the cluster namespace in the hub cluster, its name starts with the name of the cluster and ends in *admin-kubeconfig*.  For example to get the secret for managed cluster **jz-ocp-cw01-prod** the following command is executed in the hub cluster:
```
$ oc get secret -n jz-ocp-cw01-prod jz-ocp-cw01-prod-admin-kubeconfig 

NAME                                TYPE     DATA   AGE
jz-ocp-cw01-prod-admin-kubeconfig   Opaque   2      9d
```

The same kubeconfig can be downloaded from the ACM web interface, in the page "Clusters"->"cluster_name"->"Donwload kubeconfig" 

The secret contains two keys: kubeconfig, raw-kubeconfig.  Both with the same content.
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: jz-ocp-cw01-prod-admin-kubeconfig
  namespace: jz-ocp-cw01-prod
data:
  kubeconfig: YXBpVmVyc2lvbjogdjEKY2x1c3RlcnM6Ci0gY...
  raw-kubeconfig: YXBpVmVyc2lvbjogdjEKY2x1c3RlcnM6Ci0gY...
type: Opaque
```

The actual kubeconfig file is therefore found in the **kubeconfig** key in the secret **jz-ocp-cw01-prod-admin-kubeconfig**, in this case. 

The kubeconfig contents can be obtained with the following command:
```
$ oc get secret -n jz-ocp-cw01-prod jz-ocp-cw01-prod-admin-kubeconfig -o jsonpath='{.data.kubeconfig}'|base64 -d

apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    certificate-authority-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBDRVJUSUZJQ0FU...
    server: https://DOMAIN_EXAMPLE_4.COM:6443
  name: jz-ocp-cw01-prod
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: jz-ocp-cw01-prod
    user: admin
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: admin
  user:
    client-certificate-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBDRVJUSUZJQ0FURS0...
    client-key-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBSU0EgUFJJVkFURSBLRVkt...
```
In the clusters section, the **certificate-authority-data** key contains the CA certificate signing the managed cluster API service TLS certificate, so that when a client access the API service, the authenticity of the cluster can be verified.

### Issue

The kubeconfig stored in the \<cluster-name\>-admin-kubeconfig secret becomes invalid if the API service certificate is replaced.

When an Openshift cluster is installed, the TLS certificate assigned to the API service is generated by the installer and is signed by an interna CA that is only recognized by Openshift cluster itself.  After cluster installation, it is common practice to replace this API service certificate by one that is valid for the environment where the Openshift cluster is deployed.  The new TLS certificate is signed by a CA that is valid for the cluster environment but is inevitably unrelated to the CA signing the original TLS certificate.

When the new API service TLS certificate is in place, the kubeconfig stored in the secret described earlier becomes invalid and cannot be used to authenticate with the cluster because the CA certificate stored in the **certificate-authority-data** key does not match the CA signing the current API service TLS certificate.  The following error appears when trying to use the invalid kubeconfig, for example when trying to add a new node to the managed cluster the error comes up in the assisted-service pod in the multicluster-engine namespace. 
```
x509: certificate signed by unknown authority 
```

To fix the issue, the **certificate-authority-data** key in the kubeconfig must be updated to contain the valid CA for the API service TLS certificate.  This can be done manually using the **oc set data secret** command, or like in this case using an ACM policy.

### Policy Description

The policy **update-kubeconfig-ca** applies to the hub cluster where the \<cluster-name\>-admin-kubeconfig secrets are created.

The whole policy depends on the policy **cert-api-replace** so that the kubeconfigs in the secrets are updated only when the API service certificate is replaced in the managed cluster.

The policy contains the following configuration policies:

* update-kubeconfig-ca-create-service-account.- Creates a service account and corresponding rolebinding that assigns edit permissions in the cluster namespace. The service account is used by the pod created by the job. 
* update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job.- Creates a pod that runs a script to update the kubeconfig and raw-kubeconfig keys in the \<cluster-name\>-admin-kubeconfig secret, and stores the updated values in a temporary secret in the cluster namespace.
* update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job.- Deletes the job when the configuration policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job** is non compliant.  More on this later.
* update-kubeconfig-ca-check-job.- Checks that the job has executed at least once successfully.
* update-kubeconfig-ca-actual.- Updates the actual \<cluster-name\>-admin-kubeconfig secret taking the information from the temporary secret created by the script.

#### Loop
Each managed cluster has a corresponding namespace in the hub cluster contaning resources specific for that managed cluster. All of the configuration policies create delete or check resources in every managed cluster namespace. This is done using a loop in the configuration policies.

The loop goes through the list of managed clusters except the local cluster which is the hub cluster.  The hub cluster is excluded because its namespace does not contain the \<cluster-name\>-admin-kubeconfig secret:

```
{{- range (lookup "cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1" "ManagedCluster" "" "").items }}
{{- if not (eq .metadata.name "local-cluster") }}
...
{{- end }}
{{- end }}
```

Any resource referenced inside the loop is created,deleted or checked in every managed cluster namespace.

#### Job

The main purpose of the job resource is to execute a script, which is defined inline as part of the job definition. The job mounts the <cluster-name>-admin-kubeconfig secret as a volume in the /data directory so the script has access to the kubecofig and raw-kubeconfig files:

```
...
  volumeMounts:
    - name: kubeconfig
      mountPath: "/data"
volumes:
  - name: kubeconfig
    secret:
      secretName: '{{ .metadata.name }}-admin-kubeconfig'
      defaultMode: 0755
...
```

The script uses the sed command to replace the **certificate-authority-data** field in the files obtained from the secret mounted as a volume with the correct CA, which is found in the config map **custom-ca-bundle** in the namespace **policies-mano**.  This config map is created by the ansible playbook that is executed to do the initial cluster configuration including the creation of basic secrets.

The output of sed is sent to temporary files because the files mounted from the secret are "read only".

A temporary secret is created in the cluster namespace with the updated kubecofig information, but if that secret already exists it cannot be overwriten, so it is deleted first.  The service account and the rolebinding to assing edit permission in the namespace are required to perform the deletion of the secret.
```
sed  "s/certificate-authority-data:.*$/certificate-authority-data: {{ fromConfigMap "policies-mano" "custom-ca-bundle" "CA.cer" | base64enc }}/" data/kubeconfig > /tmp/kubeconfig
sed  "s/certificate-authority-data:.*$/certificate-authority-data: {{ fromConfigMap "policies-mano" "custom-ca-bundle" "CA.cer" | base64enc }}/" data/raw-kubeconfig > /tmp/raw-kubeconfig 
# If the secret exists, delete it otherwise the creation fails because the existing secret cannot be overwritten.
if $(oc get secret {{ .metadata.name }}-admin-kubeconfig-tmp &>/dev/null)
then 
  oc delete secret {{ .metadata.name }}-admin-kubeconfig-tmp
fi
oc create secret generic {{ .metadata.name }}-admin-kubeconfig-tmp --from-file=/tmp/kubeconfig --from-file=/tmp/raw-kubeconfig
```

Jobs are immutable resources in a kubernetes cluster so if the policy needs to update the job, for example because the script has been changed, the configuration policy cannot simply apply a new version, the existing job has to be removed first.  The configuration policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job** has been created for this. 

The config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job** deletes the jobs created in the cluster namespaces, but this should only happen when a new version of the job has been created.  To accomplish this, the **update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job** is dependent on the non compliant status of the policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job**, this way when a new version of the job is applied by the policy, the config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job** fails because it cannot update the immutable job resource, then the dependency for the config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job** is fullfilled and the job is deleted, so now the config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job** can create the new version of the job.  

```
...
  - extraDependencies:
     - apiVersion: policy.open-cluster-management.io/v1
       kind: ConfigurationPolicy
       name: update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job
       namespace: ""
       compliance: NonCompliant
...
```

To avoid the two config policies race each other deleting and creating the job, the config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job** is evaluated 3 times as slow as the **update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job**.

```
...
evaluationInterval:
  noncompliant: 30s
...
```
While the config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-create-job** is compliant, the config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job** is in status pending, which causes the whole policy to be in a non compliant status.  To avoid this situation in which the policy has applied correctly but is in non compliant status, the following directive is used in the config policy **update-kubeconfig-ca-delete-job**, so a pending status is considered as compliant. 
```
...
    ignorePending: true
...
```
#### Kubeconfig Update

The final configuration policy is the one that actually updates the secret containing the kubeconfig in the cluster namespaces.  It takes the information from the temporary secret created by the job script and applies it to the <cluster-name>-admin-kubeconfig secret. 
